- I went out for a long walk with the dogs while listening to the [Spatial analytics + data seminar series](https://www.turing.ac.uk/events/spatial-analytics-data). I think I wanted a stream of #[[Urban science]] topics filling my ears while I looked at actual phenomena. #[[Walking notes]] Some highlights
	- Multi scale measures of segregation. The authors measure ethnic and income similarity within spatial units at 100 different proximity scales and multiple times for the Netherlands. Each unit measures 100 meters square, which allows for observing segregation dynamics at a very fine level and up, like how segregation can spread among contiguous units and shape higher level patterns. Then they model how the share of low income people around each person's household affects their own income. They find that the effect is small and, contrary to the literature, not always higher at smaller scales. I'm curious about what mechanisms might be mediating these effects at higher scales. A different followup analysis might switch observation units to neighborhoods and estimate higher level scales via patterns in street networks. While the Netherlands creates these data from administrative records, other European countries publish estimates at a similar resolution based on many parameters. Another extension to model the effect of the spatial context on individual outcomes could be to integrate non-residential spaces, like workspaces and commuting paths.
	- A roundup of projects by the [Georgia Tech Friendly Cities Lab](https://friendlycities.gatech.edu/) with a refresher on basic spatial statistics metrics. The work seems to be very visual, so maybe check that with your eyes later. Contrary to the previous talk, this work leans mors towards the exploratory and playful, but still retains some academic rigour. Plus, they claim to build stuff in #python and publish the code online.
	- Another talk by Christa Brelsford along the lines of the traditional Santa Fe Institute cult-like complexity optimism. The takeaway was that more dimensions of human behavior should be incorporated in climate, disease spread and urban dynamics models, as they represent the greater source of uncertainty.