- I'd like to have lots of images here: visualizations, screenshots, etc. But images will inflate the size of this repository and could make git and logseq indexing operations slow. It would be a good idea to have a separate internet-accessible host for stuff like this.
	- Github can preview images, jupyter notebooks, csv and geojson files, but won't allow cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) requests unless you're serving these files via github pages. The lack of CORS means that images can be linked but won't show up inline. Besides, the process of saving a file locally,  syncing the repository, having an action rebuild the site and then retrieving the final link seems too cumbersome.
	- Archive.org is reliable, easy to upload to and serves files with CORS. But, it feels like I'd be abusing the service by hosting stuff that would probably better fit a private service.
		- Maybe somewhat unrelated, but it seems like the only firefox web [extension](https://github.com/thefoofighter/The-Archiver-WebExtension) that can upload images to archive.org is old, unmaintained and lacking in basic features like authetication. I could probably make a better one that fits my needs: a simple button in a context menu that uploads the image with my credentials to archive.org and immediately copies the public url to the clipboard #[[Random project ideas]]
	- DONE I should really explore more _serious_ options like amazon services and such.
		- So I checked other image hosting options. Some fall under the umbrella of digital asset management and come with dozens of bells and whistles I would probably never use, and a complex pricing scheme I don't really want to spend time understanding. Others are more like image sharing options targeted at regular users, these are either free and don't look reliable at all, or a little too expensive for my use case. So I ended up serving some images through [imgz](https://imgz.org/), which is not _very_ expensive, has very simple pricing and looks totally devoid of ambition. So far I'm liking the idea of having this place be text-only (as much as that is possible) and just link or embed away more visual content. Lightweight and flexible.
		  id:: 62cefbd6-8629-4663-bb2b-30997b972cef