- Personal notebooks (to me) are exercises in training my attention and nurturing internal dialogue.
	- There's a risk that, left uncontrolled, attention skims over urgent tasks, feeds of content or whatever someone else puts on our table to solve. Reclaiming attention requires, at least for me, a conscious effort and practice.
	- The object of our attention is far less important than a sustained practice of it. Anything can be turned into something beautiful if looked and handled the _right_ way. And finding the _right_ way is usually a matter of the time and care put into it.
- [[Thinking in public]] might be a great way to improve the quality of your ideas.
	- It pushes you to internalize an adversary that won't take your ideas as easy and generously as you take them yourself. What does someone need to know before they can get what I'm saying, and in what ways could they misunderstand me? How could indifference or an ill-intentioned reading affect me?
		- The effect is not only better communication, but clearer thinking and consideration of unforeseen ways to use these ideas.
			- One of the great surprises in my time publishing data and tools online has been that often the most important _external_ user is one self in a future time. You take time documenting things because eventually you'll forget them and need to come back for an unexpected reason. You make sure the plots are easy-to-read, the tools easy-to-use and the data easy-to-work-with because you'll revisit them later. All this imaginary social pressure is just a way to trick yourself into taking these tasks seriously.
			- In reality very few people take any notice about what you do, almost anybody will take the trouble to really understand what you're saying, and most probably no one will reach out and have a conversation with you. So you might as well be building things alone under you bed, but in this case the chances that they feed into future projects are far greater. And the more tools you have under your arm, the more things you can make.
			- I believe that pushing how interpretable and reusable your ideas are leads to a more reflexive practice and higher quality systems. Taken as an organizational principle, this is to me one the most important [[Arguments for open data]].
- So I write for myself and make it public to take it more seriously. Is there _actually_ a moment I consider seriously the role of other people in this project?
	- Everything I do and publish grows from this mesh of assumptions, references, circumstances and stories I tell myself. Displaying these objects out of context makes them harder, sometimes impossible, to fully understand. Even when you publish well-documented code, there's a story of how you reached a specific implementation that would be too long and digressive for code comments. There should be a place where stories are told and arguments tried.
	- Sometimes the story itself might be, not just documentation, but the most interesting part about a project. Some projects really are demonstrations of more abstract ideas, and it carries value to elaborate what those are exactly. If there's interest in a project, people _will_ make their own stories which tend to deviate greatly from the real ones. I should not let others guess what I'm trying to do or say and actually articulate it.
	- Most of the social spaces I let my projects participate in clearly overrate words over tools. These are people who think of themselves as managers and critical thinkers, but regard tool-making as a fundamentally unreflective practice. For many, code is an alien domain filled with naive people who would try to apply any tool they know to any problem they find. By not making the ideas behind my projects explicit and public, I contribute to these misconceptions and sometimes let more outspoken people take credit for my work. There should be a place where I let others peek on the critical nature of what I do. If tweets are too short, code is too practical and plots should be left to speak for themselves, maybe a public notebook is a good solution.
	- Occasionally I feel the need to introduce myself to others and realize that so much of what I do publicly is scattered across a dozen domains and is not easy to understand at first glance. There should be a place that tells the story of every small project I've published and builds an overall narrative that's easy to grasp.
- Why not just make a blog?
	- Before this project, I played with writing [public notes](https://mauforonda.github.io/notas/) in `jupyter` notebooks, `quarto` notebooks and a custom markdown-based system. Neither of them was a good writing experience and it always felt like building a house with parts that didn't fit. Any advantage I could find, like the shared execution / publishing environment of computational notebooks or the endless syntax extensibility of building straight over markdown, seemed like mostly a distraction from the purpose of this place: building arguments and stories.
	- I guess I could have just used a static site generator or, god forbid, something like wordpress, but the more I thought about a document-based publishing workflow, the more it felt like I would end up posting an article every month or less because I would obsess over _how finished_ it was. I value _way_ more the practice of writing than the idea of showing a perfectly polished article. Blog tools optimize too much for old conventions I don't really care and bring basically nothing to the table regarding the writing experience.
	- I've been using obsidian and logseq to write notes privately for a while with good results. As much as I like to complain about writing in a web browser environment, it does ease the transition from writing to publishing online. Logseq currently feels like it gets more out of the way while writing because it distances itself further from a document-based model. So I'll try this experiment for a while, limit myself to the most basic logseq features to avoid thinking too much about it, and see how far I can get.